all right thanks so much folks for being
with us we're going to get into our main
event debate for the night before we do
we're going to do something different in
particular this conference has a sponsor
which is manifold who we really do
appreciate manifold is the online play
prediction market so you don't use any
real money you don't have to risk any of
your real money it's just for fun like
Monopoly money you can predict anything
in including the debates we have for
debate conon this weekend so what we're
going to do is in order to resolve who
is more persuasive during the debate is
we're actually going to do a before and
after poll raising your hands you don't
have to vote but if you happen to lean
one way or the other namely if you think
that
Christianity has a better foundation for
ethics even just a smidge or if it's all
the way then at that point you'd put
your hand up if you're like totally 5050
or like I I really am truly 50 then
don't put your hand up when we do the
poll and then if you lean towards
secular humanism even a smidge or 100%
you'd want to put your hand up when we
give that option does that make sense so
we're going to do a percentage basis so
percent at the start of the debate and
then at the end and then for our online
audience you highly encourage you to
check out manifold which is linked in
the description box you can actually
vote right now now in terms of who you
think will win in other words be more
persuasive in this debate by clicking on
that link right now in the description
box thanks so much to manifold for
sponsoring our
event and by the way last if you want to
vote in person via manifold you can
actually use your phone camera and use
the QR code and actually do that right
here if you want to do that vote as well
so with that want to say we're gonna
have Matt going first but before we do
we're going to do that quick hand vote
if you happen to lean even like a smidge
or all the way towards secular humanism
would you slip your hand
up and then we're gonna give Chris a
chance to he's gonna Vote or count them
real
quick cool and then if you happen to
lean a smidge or all the way all the
degrees in between or Christianity if
you slip your hand
up
you got it all right great so Chris has
that recorded and then we'll resolve the
market at the end of the debate but with
that we're going to kick it over to Matt
for his opening statement thanks so much
for being with us and Matt the floor is
all yours for your
opening thanks so much James and thanks
Andrew for being here and all of you for
showing up um humanism has as its focus
the betterment of humanity in this life
while Christianity has as its focus
adherence to a God and the dispos
position of souls in an afterlife our
best efforts in this life are according
to the Bible like filthy rag our best
attempts at righteousness and Justice
are portrayed as vile and disgusting
when compared to a bumbling god
constantly failing to get his creation
to love and respect him while also
prescribing the death penalty for nearly
everything adultery blasphemy breaking
the Sabbath disobedient children
witchcraft worshiping another God not
being a virgin on your wedding night
which is better for society well I'd say
the one that has human society as its
focus and isn't so intent on killing
humans for not buying into a specific
Doctrine heaven and hell if they were to
exist aren't human societies what a God
thinks is unknown and
irrelevant there's never been a secular
humanist Nation either in a governmental
form which I'm not advocating for or in
a primary philosophical view of the
majority of the population which means
we have to look at the ideals between
these two positions secular humanism has
been around for 90 years 19 1933 the
first secular humanist Manifesto was
published it identified humanism as a
religion with 15 points it was updated
40 years later in 1973 with a lot more
information and then it was incredibly
shortened in 2003 in addition to the
manifestos there are organizations like
the council for secular humanism
American humanists Etc in the first
version of the Manifesto It's presented
as a religious view where it
acknowledges there's no Supernatural
guarantee of human value we Advocate a
heightened sense of person personal life
and a Cooperative effort to promote
social well-being the goal of humanism
is a free and Universal society in which
people voluntarily and intelligently
cooperate for the common good in the
manifesto version 2 40 years later this
includes a lot more information short
versions they they begin by saying those
who sign this disclaim that they are
setting forth a binding Credo this
statement reaches for a vision in time
that needs Direction we affirm a set of
common principles that can serve as a
basis for United action this isn't a
to-do list or Thou shalt or Thou shalt
not list we're fine with religion's
inspiration but we're opposed to dogma
and authoritarian views that place
anything above human needs religions
don't pass the test of scientific
evidence the promises of immortal
salvation or Eternal damnation are ucer
and harmful ethics and moral values stem
from Human Experience and situational
ethics stem from the human need and
human interest reason and intelligence
are the most effective instruments we
possess we are not advocating for the
use of scientific intelligence
independent of or in opposition to
emotion for we believe in the
cultivation of feeling and
love individuals are precious and their
dignity is
affirmed this is
important us human being
affirming the value of individuals and
human beings is more powerful than a god
affirming it and it's infinitely more
powerful than a human claiming a god
affirms this which is all we appear to
have the third version of the manifesto
in a nutshell it's so short whether God
exists or not we have problems to solve
we have to do this without appeals to
the supernatural entities or
intervention we must utilize the best
methods at our disposal reason and
science seem to be the primary ones to
assess reality and reach conclusion
Justice fairness equality and autonomy
are the primary goals this life not a
hypothetical afterlife is what we're
trying to improve so what happens when
religions control societies and
governments either legitimate or
illegitimate well conflicts with other
societies and other governments may not
have any reason to diplomatic solution
need only look to Gaza but that's Islam
and Judaism here we have Christianity as
a primary and Christian nationalism
under secular humanism you get to be a
Christian a Jew a Muslim gay straight
socialist capitalist you just don't get
to impose those necessarily on others
through acts of
Fiat not necessarily true with the
religions in charge of the
government Mike Johnson's the new
speaker of the house in the United
States he's homophobic because all get
out he's argued to criminalize
homosexuality homosexualities by the way
are US citizens with PF specific rights
that he wants to take away moreover he
advocates for gay conversion therapy
which is unscientific and torturous
because he thinks he can help them pray
the gay away and the gay can be
eliminated he's not anti-gay he just
wants them to cease to exist as gay they
get to keep being human beings he thinks
there's no right to sodomy privacy laws
don't protect everything and he thinks
that what sort of sex you have it should
be his to regulate sodomy by the way is
anal or oral copulation which I have it
on good authority heterosexual folks
engage in as
well 2022 he presented a what was called
the don't say gay Bill outlawing any
discussion of gender identity sexual
orientation or related subjects which
was incredibly problematic because he
ignored the the what the experts have to
say about age appropriate content and
how critical it is especially for kids
under 10 which was his Target to have
correct language in order to better
report on and about sexual abuse his
policy if it had been implemented would
have made it more traumatic for kids and
more difficult for them to uh out their
abusers and easier for abusers to get
away with it happily it failed in 2015
he blamed abortions and the breakup of
the nuclear family for school shootings
he also says the teaching of evolution
is to blame for mass shootings because
we've taught a whole generation of
couple Generations now of Americans that
there's no right or wrong that it's
about survival of the fittest and if you
evolve from a primordial slime what is
that life of any sacred value he wants
student-led prayer back in school so
speaker are you okay with Islamic
prayers satanic prayers or just
particular Christian prayers he's
opposed to the separation of religion in
government sometimes called the
separation in church and state he thinks
that the founders only wanted to protect
the church from the state and didn't
want to protect the state from the
church citing the notorious lying pseudo
historian David Barton um to support
this view he definitely seeks to impose
his views on others now some of you are
saying hang on he's the speaker of the
house he's not the speaker of chrisan
Christianity or that's not my type of
Christianity great but what is your type
what's your type of Christianity like
because there's a lot of them how is it
better and how can we make sure that we
get your better version than the one
that Mike Johnson want he thinks his
version is correct so do you countless
denominations without consensus he's
already got more power than my opponent
has right now so I don't know Andrew at
all I don't know what what version of
Christianity is advocating for I didn't
bother to look him up we literally just
met said hello as I sat down here is his
version of Christianity better I really
hope so because it' be hard to get a
whole lot
worse but they point to the same book
they point to the same savior the same
history liberal and moderate Christians
provide legitimacy and cover to hide the
fundamentalists and to allow them to
engage in Christian
nationalism secular humanism allows you
to be a Christian right up until you try
to oppose it on others and then you get
to keep being a Christian you just don't
get to practice it in the way where
you're imposing it on others you can
pray you go to church you can tithe you
can worship gather share discuss convert
vote based on your values you can vote
against your own best interest I see
people doing all the time you can teach
your kids your values under secular
humanism the foundational principles of
secular humanism solve conflicts with
data debate and discussion instead of
coercion conversion or Conquest there is
no secular humanist sect and no
denomination of humanist that's ever
required someone to believe something
that is not empirically verifiable
that's ever ordered the death of another
person that's ever ordered or acted to
act or destroy property of any person or
government that has ever overthrown a
democracy to impose a secular humanist
regime that's ever been connected with
terrorist cells and activities that's
ever denied freedom of speech or
expression that's ever called for the
deaths of people for criticizing secular
humanism or any religious view that is
ever advocated for or inspired suicide
bombers or terrorist attacks those
things are simply not consistent in any
way with the core values of secular
humanism there is no threat to
Christians Jews Muslims
scientologists from secular
humanists there might be from scientific
skepticism and rationality if you're not
able to actually demonstrate the truth
of your claim but life freedom and an
equitable relationship are the
foundation of secular humanism there is
no list of Thou shalt not or Thou shalt
because we recognize that nearly every
attempt at such a list fails at some
point as we learn more about our world
and about getting better at
understanding the world better about
doing better and being better in this
life the goal of humanism is a free and
Universal society in which people
voluntarily and intelligently cooperate
for the common good if you have an OB
objection to that or a better goal what
is
it all right thank you so much for your
introductory statement uh we're gonna
hand it over to Andrew Wilson for 10
minutes so thank you for being here
Andrew and the floor is yours you're
welcome for those of you who don't know
me my name is Andrew Wilson I am the
host of The One and Only Crucible the
fastest growing debate channel on the
internet James I just just in case you
didn't know appreciate that very much
appreciate everybody being here all of
you are way too stodgy in this room very
low energy just wanted to let all of you
know that ladies and gentlemen of all
pronouns the Z's the Z the HM and hers I
would like to thank you for tuning in
today for this in exciting inperson
conference on modern day debate my name
is Andrew
Wilson um there's a few ways this debate
could go the topic is Christian ethics
versus secular humanism which which has
a better Foundation the funny thing is
is I already won that topic because as
mattt explained to Jay Dyer he has no
justification under the skeptical belief
structure to give an accounting for any
metaethical uh presupposition he may
have he just kind of Grants himself
stuff he grants himself logic he grants
himself reason he grants himself an
entire worldview even though he's using
an unjustified starting position for it
so I'm not honestly all that interested
in doing the God not real do debate
because one it's boring and two it's
also really boring it goes like to this
I don't see enough evidence and remain
unconvinced there's a God then I say but
you use a theistic worldview of
justification like there is a God to
Grant yourself logic and everything else
so instead of that I'm just going to
Grant Matt's entire
worldview 2third or more of the plan of
this entire planet are all operating
inside of a shared delusion that they
were created by a sky daddy who loves
him some slavery and
murderousness he thinks it's funny to
kind of Cosmic Le with people that's his
deal kind of his whole thing that's
Matt's worldview so now Matt's right and
the question becomes should we let them
to continue to believe in this
nonsensical Stone Age Madness or do we
stop them from engaging in it my
contention is even if God isn't real at
all that people acting as though he is
is still Superior to whatever
nonsensical egalitarian worldview Mack
and come up with see Matt also just asks
as though the things he believes are
true he believes he believes he believes
and therefore acts as though logic is
real math is real everything is real
based on his presuppositional belief
that they are real you see human
flourishing the Cornerstone of Matt's
ideology and that of secular humanism is
totally meaningless flourishing by who
metric from my perspective for instance
attempting to lie to people who claim
men can be women isn't human
flourishing from Matt's perspective it
is why why should the collective of
humanity lie and say men can get
pregnant why should uh they say that men
can have periods things which are
categorically and obviously
false that preserving homosexuality in
society is good for human flourishing
even though they are reproductive dead
ends and that Western society and
egalitarianism is superior to those evil
Theo Society even though the Western
Nations can't even reproduce their own
populations but instead have to replace
their population with foreigners from
those theist Nations that can
reproduce let's start with a basic
societal question recently asked of the
West who has now embraced a scientific
and non-theistic approach to governing
super basic question every
kindergartener knows if you don't
believe me go watch Kindergarten Cop the
question posed to the Western nation is
can a man be a woman right to the
question of if a man can be a woman they
say the answer is yes and the way we
will decree they can be a woman is by
simply saying that woman now means male
problem solved thank you Secor humanist
thank you so much nope not kidding why
you ask would people be this overthe
toop stupid well it's simple the good is
the good man we have to do what's good
for human society and human flourishing
and if you don't call these strange
lunatics something they obviously aren't
they might self-terminate so in order to
avoid that we need to make everybody on
planet Earth to them this is human
flurry just redefine pretend it's
true how laughably absurd this worldview
is Matt will often say I remain
unconvinced well Matt I'm also going to
use your standard I need for you to 100%
convince me beyond a shadow of a doubt
that males can have babies what's the
answer going to be no Andrew you big
stupid males can't have babies men can
have babies cuz we just Define man to
include females dummy well Matt I remain
unconvinced I'd like Matt to convince me
that if you are a male and you are
having sex with another male which would
not be allowed in my version of a
secular humanist worldview how is it
that you're not just basically having
sex with a guy with a wig on I really
want to know the answer to that question
not just me but all rational people who
aren't lunatics also want to know why
it's ma'am isn't a complete and total
Croc of garbage because I remain
unconvinced that it isn't a total lie
and that's these people just pervert the
language to include their own
perversions and then add human
flourishing at the end Matt has said he
wouldn't make a law stopping 9-year-olds
from having sex with each other not
kidding now I know this is going to
sound a little bit totalitarian but I
would in fact create laws that made it a
crime for a 99-year-old and have sex
their 9-year-old I would hold the
parents criminally liable for allowing
this to happen in my evil authoritarian
Society where I don't even let
9-year-olds have sex or the parents go
straight to jail for negligence now I
think that's better for human
flourishing I think maybe parents would
be far less likely to let their
nine-year-olds do that if they went to
jail stupid me next I would in my
authoritarian Society decree that all
simulated sex acts in public were
criminal offenses and would make sure
that all people went to prison for the
crime of indecency which doesn't assist
with human flourishing and I'd like to
know why I'm
wrong secular humanis
can basically be whatever the hell you
want it to be it doesn't really need the
principle of Freedom or the starting
axium of freedom and peace in order to
postulate whatever it wants it's
sloganeering they're slogans they don't
mean
anything okay why do nine-year-olds need
to be able to have sex in order to
advance Humanity why do we need to lie
about a person's sex in order to advance
Humanity why are these things necessary
for human flourishing why are decency
laws bad why would Christian ethics stop
flourishing when the theist mandate is
to reprodu reproduce and the secular
mandate is let's just all have sex and
have fun bro that sounds way worse for
human flourishing in fact I would say
not reproducing is a worst possible
thing for human flourishing because if
there's no humans how do you flourish so
I guess in essence step one I remain
unconvinced step two I need to be
convinced so I am no longer unconvinced
and step three but God not real though
doesn't matter here I've already granted
it to still demonstrate just how stupid
this ideology actually is
with that I'll yield my time and I'm
happy to get into
it hey James I just sent you a
message all right we are gonna kick it
into an open discussion so uh 50 minutes
and uh let's kick it no I don't think
so I'm not going to sit here and dignify
the preparation that I went through and
what people work here for you're so
indignant keep interrupting me I I am
you're so indignant would the moderator
like to step in so that I can finish
what I'm saying please Matt please how
dare someone have an opposing world I'm
not going to sit here and dignify what
was supposed to be a debate about
Christianity versus secular humanism
which one's better for the world yes
with someone who clearly showed up with
an agenda that has nothing to do with
that I just someone who refers to trans
people as deranged lunatics who will
self-terminate if you dare to question
them how am I wrong Matt
someone someone who
misrepresents a quote from a debate
where I said I wouldn't make a law about
nine-year-olds having sex being legal
with respect to the 9-year-olds not that
I was in any way in favor of it and that
I was actually opposed to it which I
addressed during that debate but
moreover this is not remotely an honest
interaction on the front of whether or
not secular humanism is valuable because
this when he presented his position here
has nothing to do with secular humanism
from from the get-go it's all about me
Matt thinks Matt thinks Matt thinks I'm
giving what Matt thinks what Matt thinks
what Matt position Matt's position I
came in with the secular humanist
Manifesto I came in with positions that
aren't just my that aren't merely my
positions oh well as long as multiple
people hold a position this guy's not
serious and I'm leaving James if you
want to refund you let me well good day
sir and I'll cover your refund Mr Matt
he just said he'd cover my refund I
would cover his
refund
no I'm not going to dignify a debate
with someone who walked in to trash talk
people and be smug and all of the things
that he's being right now he's already
said he will cover my expenses you don't
have anything to worry about this debate
is over goodbye goodbye
Jack did you call did you did you call
me a jackass
Matt well you and your husband have a
good day
Matt have a wonderful day
mat yeah yeah no that was fine I mean if
you're gonna take a Parting Shot I will
too Matt yeah yeah thing is my parting
shots correct no your parting shots
correct oh man tough tough crowd tough
crowd
I am Sor
that
and do appreciate you
coming our no you guys got to cover your
own cost sorry so I agree that what
Andrew said wasn't helpful in that well
hold on just let me actually talk is
like I'm already addressing it so you
want to interrupt me still really yeah
selfcontrol please so is Andrew like
when you call people Luna
it like that does come off as the
presentation of a correct worldview so
uh but I at the same time I can't help
that Matt left like I would like Matt to
refute and explain to Andrew like hey
here's why calling people lunatics isn't
an argument and this is intellectually
low brow but I can't help that Matt left
I'm sorry about that
so uh if you want to email me I'm at
modernday debate gmail.com I could even
give you my number if you want to email
me first and we can talk but I think
we'd agree that you know calling people
names isn't an argument and it's low
brow I didn't call anybody any Nam at
the same time my preference would be
that Matt would kind of explain that for
the internet to see like I think that's
why we've hosted these debates is that
there are bad arguments that they'd be
exposed to the world like rebutted and
exposed to the world but I I can't help
I can't make Matt do something so I am
sorry that we don't appear to have a
headline debate
tonight you want to ask Andrew
questions if you guys would in spirit of
debate you guys want to ask questions if
you guys would like to engage with
Andrew and challenge his calling people
lunatics I am open to that if you guys
would like to go ahead I think you well
we do need to have you speaking on the
mic though yeah do it say we can have
somebody speak in the mic
unless up there my goodness all right
it's on you buddy so it seems like you
lost the debate it seems like you didn't
have an argument to begin with so I'd
like to know so where's because I fled
the debate stage yeah where's your like
degree in Psychology to understand these
like Concepts you need a degree in
Psychology to know what a man and a
woman are sir well apparently you need
holds please I'm serious I'm going to
toss people if this gets out of hand
seriously I don't care I will carry you
up
myself so keep selfcontrol
okay Andrew you have to let them ask a
question pissed off everybody okay fair
enough including me
like for what you have to let them
actually ask their question that's fair
okay fair go ahead probably P being
personal um so I didn't hear an argument
against secular humanism I'm not
necessarily on board with everything
with the secular humanist Manifesto What
specifically about the manifesto that he
talked about do you find troubling it's
all lies it's literally based on
non-reality being subjectively
interpreted as whatever you want you can
make bold claims specific please I'm
giving you a specific one if you sir
believe that a man can be a woman and
you can think that you can Gaslight the
entirety specifically are you going to
let me answer the question question or
no go ahead if you want to try to
Gaslight the entirety of humankind that
this falsehood actually exists in
descriptive reality and then say well
that's science and we rule with science
We Rule with our mind we rule with our
brain that's absurd it's absurd how in
the world can you want a Doctrine like
that to run your life
how where is that in the secular
humanist
Manifesto there he has no descriptor for
what is true he has no justification for
truth because he has no justification
for truth they can make up whatever they
want as being a truth claim in this case
they make up what is a man and what is a
woman do you understand yeah so you're
making the presuppositional argument
that you have to ground all beliefs in
your belief in God which which made that
argument I conceited his entire
worldview to ask him one descriptive
Claim about reality and he got so upset
about the descriptive reality claim he
fled the room you're being personal
about it but uh what was personal
when did I name anybody your your close
your closing statement as he walked out
I hope you and your husband have a good
Oh you mean after he called me a name
which was very personal when he called
me a name first yeah so you're insulting
his partner along with him why not if
he's insulting you why don't you just
directly insult how can how can it be an
insult if I'm giving you a descriptive
real true statement that's a real true
statement how could you be insulted
unless you know it's a
lie how
all right next one coming in good luck
to
you hey Andrew I um I'm I'm pretty
religious myself um I I tend to keep to
myself uh but uh one thing that I I've
always been listening to or I can't
really say the the verse really well I
don't really remember it by heart but
it's had something to do with along the
lines of uh don't give uh swine don't
give pearls to swine because they
wouldn't know what to do with it not to
call anybody who doesn't believe in
religion I you just called the whole
audience fne yeah sorry not not not
that's just what the that's just what
the I that's just the quote was uh
basically saying don't uh you know push
and try to convince someone if they're
like unbelievers or they don't believe
um you know so what kind of gets you
fired up and want to try and uh tell
them you know your position you know so
my position has a requirement in truth
it's one of the Commandments of
Christianity it's one of the four things
that we should focus on is what is true
and yet people make these descriptive
ridiculous descriptive claims and expect
us look at how pissed off some of these
people are because I told the truth what
in the world did I say that was not true
nothing there was nothing I said which
is untrue and yet they're still that
upset over what because they they don't
have truth there is no truth on their
side it's all bunch of lies and a facade
and so when you tell them what's true
they malfunction they go into NPC
mode I was told man can be woman it's
insane they can't it's nuts it's nuts
yeah I just think that like uh that
cannot go like hand inand like religion
and secular humanism can go hand in hand
if like you kind of just like you're not
totally right you're not totally wrong
but you know we're in America you can
live the way you want I do have you know
I do have a personal problem when you
try to force it regardless if it's you
know religion or um secular humanism
when you try to force your beliefs and
tell them like oh you're a bigot if you
don't believe this or you're delusional
if you don't believe this and stuff but
you know it's just uh let's all get
together be friends you
know I'm not adverse to people having
the most radical from me World Views on
planet Earth I debate with them all the
time professionally okay all the time
professionally talk to him from all over
the world I don't don't run away from
their views I don't run away if they say
think I find they're mean I tangle with
them and their ideology and I destroy it
because it's wrong it's a wrong ideology
Matt knew what was coming the next thing
was just a simple question and it would
have led unfortunately for him to a
place that nobody likes to go because
societally it's become uncomfortable to
tell the truth and his ideology clearly
promotes the discomfort in telling the
truth there is truth there's objective
truth
like at what point are we going to
decide um you know that a 400b guy is
skinny because he says he's skinny like
there come on at some point you we have
to use what he calls rationality and
reason right all right next question hey
Andrew uh so you just mentioned truth 80
times it's true it's true it's true can
you describe to us your process for
finding truth yeah so the same as all
Christians we gain truth through divine
revelation the belief in God church
history we have uh all sorts of
different metrics that we can use which
I'm happy to get into with somebody
during a debate could have brought all
those things up I would have been happy
to go through each one of them and
absolutely we can use these scriptures
for what is true but even in the
comments I don't think you and I would
disagree in just the way that we kind of
look at things what might be true or not
true you know I think we can both look
at a tree for instance and say you know
what that's a
tree the problem is when somebody goes
no it's not man it's a rock and I no
wait that's no it's not you know what I
mean and they try to Gaslight you into
believing that it is that's Insanity to
to me that stuff is insane it's just
pure Insanity one of the one of the ways
that you mentioned that you you find
truth is through divine revelation if
two people have conflicting divine
revelation how would you find truth
between them yeah so that's a good
question for Protestants so Protestants
for instance I ask the Protestants the
same exact question if you're imbued
with the the Holy Spirit you're imbued
with the Holy Spirit you're both reading
the same passage and you come up with
completely different answers to what
that passage mean how do you know who's
telling the truth how do you know which
one of you is right it's the same exact
criticism that I have luckily for us we
have church history how find we have
church history and Apostolic succession
so we actually know what the Bible says
right from the very beginning through
Apostolic succession we don't have any
disagreement because we yield to the
authority of the church who's in
Universal agreement except based on
interpretation when you different based
on based on interpretation yeah okay so
what is the interpretation that you
think that my church holds that you
disagree with I I don't know what
specific belief well then why would you
even open your mouth about it makes no
sense I'm I'm good thank
you another question from ozian come
around there just a final question um so
what's it is it true that the topic
today was Will secular humanism be
Christianity or was it about transgender
no the topic today was secular humanism
versus Christian ethics Christians have
an ethical duty to tell the truth and
they the secular humanist does not as I
just demonstrated live to everybody they
have no absolutely no duty to tell
anybody the truth about anything none
well I think everybody can see on screen
what the debate topic is and what he
said was not the truth it says no no no
that was not the debate topic even just
an hour ago even just an hour ago that
was not the debate topic
so to be fair that is a question yeah
regarding to the debate but yeah we will
carry on the questions there given that
this clearly wasn't the topic and you've
been bodied on the issue before
including by nominal Naomi a year
ago why not on a new topic instead okay
so first of all I I literally went
through and said these people have no
justification for their beliefs at all
could have gone after that I went on to
further explain here's how I can
demonstrate that they have no
justification for any of their claims
here's how I can demonstrate they don't
have truth on their side because I can
show an example in real time of these
people completely in totally lying to
you totally lying to you and so many of
you in the audience are like how dare
you I'm not saying anything incorrect
here you're being lied to I'm
sorry I didn't say
yes it
is that we have to make sure that you're
speaking to the mic or otherwise the
online audience can't hear you do you
want to come back on
up all right that's not how myself or
the commenters on those videos well
nominal Naomi got obliterated on that
topic and if you'd like the video
evidence I've got seven times the views
that nominal Naomi had and nominal Naomi
backed out of a second debate with with
me just letting you know just letting
you know do we have any other questions
from anybody in the chat or our audience
here at the chat see I'm still in
moderation mode my brain's gotten fried
from all the traveling and that just
happened so that's a little bit exciting
isn't it well we are sorry of course
that uh things didn't go to plan uh not
sure if anybody's got some questions in
the live chat or if anybody wants to
come forward for more questions but uh
if not then we'll wrap it up I think uh
at this point if you had anything else
you want to say there James we take a
well you do have the we do have the poll
that is
correct
R okay all right so if you if you're no
longer neutral but you were earlier but
now you're like why I lean this way now
you can vote now if you're if you didn't
vote earlier because you were neutral
does that make sense okay all right so
show of hands um who here has been
swayed by the secular
argument well and it and was secular
coming in let's see those
hands we'll take the ones that were
secular or if you changed your mind
leave it down that's fine if you changed
your mind that's fine I mean I thought I
thought we were going to try to figure
out who's actually swayed here so we
need everybody if anybody hands go up
that didn't go up for the other side
last time then we'll know and have you
been swayed by the arguments for
Christianity let's see a show of
hands okay we got those results and also
if you're watching online you can uh
vote on our poll there you can see that
it's shifting ever so back and forth as
people are placing their bets and votes
so uh we're going to close that out in a
second and uh thanks everybody one thing
I do want to do is in case there are any
online questions people are interested
in hearing sure did you guys want to
yeah let's do that where is my phone
that's a good
question I need I need my device to uh
pop these up guys there it is
bear with me there live audience we've
had a little a little mishap here it's
not going entirely to plan but we're
we're making it work all
right yeah I got the fan chats
here so just give me a second we'll read
some of those out if it
loads but if I get the mic oh you want
the mic
no so I do think I mentioned Andrew that
uh not only is it like int actually low
brow but as a fellow
Christian calling people
lunatics it doesn't seem productive so
for me as a Christian like I have to say
that I trusted you as a fellow Christian
and when you call people
lunatics you can see why I'm kind of
like okay this is helpful now is it true
that
online sometimes there are you could
say uh I don't want to paint with broad
brush Strokes there are some pocket
of secular people that might say like oh
Christians are delusional and that's I
get how that's like basically them
calling them lunatics I'm not painting
with broad brushstrokes that's pockets
of secular
people so but in either case I think we
both agree like calling someone a
lunatic or calling them uh delusional
whatever it is whatever insult it is
like it's not fruitful it's you know I
mean it's not edifying it's not
spiritually like encouraging someone or
building them up so for me as a
Christian I'm
um you know I'm just like why
Andrew because it's true James I can
understand if you come that's why like
CU it's because it's true that's why so
but like I said in terms of the barbed
approach though is that there are some
Christians that have conservative
theology including me uh that will come
on and you know they'll State what they
believe but they won't go further to to
offend I mean for example like the
gospel like we know what that means like
this idea that Jesus died on a cross for
people that's already offensive and so
like which I don't mind you know if
people are offended by that I don't mind
they can take all of our symbols destroy
them take them out of everywhere they
can go online they can deface our Lord
they can do any horrible thing to us
that they can possibly imagine but lo
and behold we tell the truth why I mean
why allow why allow us to do that why
allow us to do that that's that's where
we should draw the line
I've said my piece I'm going to you do
have objections from online so uh some
of these might be for Matt in which case
Matt obviously is not here to respond so
I'm not going to read if if it's for
Matt because I don't want to I don't
want to read something you can't respond
to this one is
from let's
see actually a lot of these are more
more of these are uh from M than I
expected let's
see study let's
see what is
your uh I'm an Orthodox
Christian I don't think the questions
that we have from online are uh a
substantive or
related so if anyone has questions in
the inperson audience otherwise I think
that's go ahead yeah I'll take it on
over all
right all right over to you yeah do you
think that Jesus Christ would be proud
of your behavior tonight I I think that
anybody
anybody who values Truth at all of any
kind would not have a single dispute
with what I said which is just objective
reality descriptive objected it's no
different than me saying the paint's
white like do you think Jesus Christ
would be okay with you saying the
paint's yeah dude it's just objectively
true but if you're like a prick about it
I
mean I I started so so it started as me
being the prick I didn't call anybody a
jackass he didn't personally insult
dillah Hunty didn't say a word about
anything about dillah Hunty related at
all there was nothing
nothing right hi Andrew this is less of
a question and more of a statement as a
followup to what his question was make
sure it has of unor sorry sorry I'm
trying to ask a question give me the
most sorry sorry I'm trying to ask a
question make sure it SE and dri I I do
remember Jesus saying something like the
least you do to my people you do to me
mhm so I so the least so I told him the
truth then that's that's what Jesus
would be mad
at uh so I am curious uh on your
perspective of how far is is too far
like uh for example like I go to a lot
of like comic conventions and stuff and
uh all the time I always see like a
group of Christians always saying you
guys are worshiping idolatry y'all are
going to hell and I myself am pretty
religious but I just go there for fun uh
would you I mean they may or may not by
their perspective they're telling the
truth but many others might not believe
that but I I guess the question is how
far is too far like would you I think
that was just walking over to him and
saying do you think a rock is a rock and
a tree is a tree is too far I don't
think that's too far I think that
walking over to him maybe and making
threats or trying to do horrifying
things to them I think that's too far
but I think asking a basic question or
saying something that's descriptively
true like thing X is thing X and thing Y
is not thing X I think that's fine why
would they get even get upset about it
yeah but I mean uh it's it's like going
out of your way I mean for some people
it's just a hobby you know creating
something and just enjoying the time and
then having someone on a megaphone just
saying you guys are all going to hell
because y'all are dressing up I mean if
that's the case you know everyone who
dresses up for Halloween would go to
hell I mean people who dress up Santa
Claus during Christmas time they should
go to hell and pretend inside your
scenario for a second that you disagree
with these people and so they get a
represent a representative for them one
of the best representatives for their
ideology they possibly could and then
they set up some kind of like area where
that representative and then a
representative from the other belief
were able to go and there was like some
guy who was like moderating it and then
both of them could hash it out and
determine who was right like what what
if we had that what if we had a
situation like that but then still
somebody could become so offended right
just by a claim against their truth
value that they run off why would you
believe them why would you believe them
Integrity what what about it is
integrity to lie to people what's what's
integral about that you just lied about
he he listed it right there the the
9-year-old thing that you commented oh
no would you like to see the video yeah
I'd love to I have it peed right here
the video you're wrong okay what did he
say he made the argument that he would
not be in support sorry come on over
come on
over he very plainly stated I I think it
was with uh hi hikachu is that right
yeah it was in a discussion with hikachu
where hikachu goes goes off and like you
said something that he clearly didn't
say he was making the claim that uh you
have claimed that it's perfectly fine
for 9-year-olds to hook up this was not
the case so not even close he this was
in the debate with Daniel where he got
up and got in Daniel's face or kind of
also also sorry to interrupt but out of
the two of them between Daniel and
dillah Hunty who do you reckon is more
in favor of kids I have no idea
I don't pay attention to Daniel but in
the Daniel in the in that particular
debate to respond here's what actually
happened and I'll bet you I'll tell you
what if I'm wrong about this I will
personally send you $50
personally here's here's what actually
happened what actually happened was he
said yes or no Matt yes or no Matt is it
okay or would you make laws sorry he
says would you make laws would you make
a law saying nine-year-olds couldn't
have sex with each other by the way
that's what I referenced in here too
would you make a law saying
nine-year-olds can't have sex with each
other and he said if I have to do the
yes or no thing then no I wouldn't make
that law that's what was referenced that
was what was referenced and what was the
followup who what was the followup tell
me he he said he said that he didn't um
support 9-year-olds having sex but even
even you said a similar thing when you
were talking with Matt you said you
would hold the parents negligent and the
children so so you would put 9-year-olds
in jail would put them in jail then you
don't hold them criminally responsible
9year olds so you don't support criminal
laws for 9-year-olds what you're saying
here is not whether or not and by the
way can be you can have a criminal law
where nobody goes to jail what are you
talking about do you think even under
Christian ethics respond to my first
stop I I've answered your questions
answer one of mine do you have to go to
jail when you're held criminally liable
for something we do not no you do not
but no you do not but we do not hold
children criminally liable even under
Christian ethics I think it's 13 years
old it passes over to the parents the
parents go to prison for negligible for
being negligible even you agree with
that you would not hold the children
themselves criminally liable show me the
clip of Matt saying the parents should
go to jail for the kids having the sex
not asked that question yeah but what do
you think he would say if he was I don't
know right well he not to ask he could
have asked he could have he could have
responded he doesn't support it he says
you took me out of context why didn't he
contextualize it we could have got into
it and and I may be I may agree with you
that maybe the criminal the parents
should be held responsible for what the
kids why you get mad at me I didn't
leave the debate you knew well knew what
I was doing audience wouldn't know what
actually was said it's the wrong
audience first of all first of all I was
correct about what he said I I was
correct about what he said that's what
he said in that inter in that exchange
later you say saying you were correct
yes I was correct they can't Che you're
yeah so if we're gonna if we're going to
keep having back and forth we're going
to have to come on up we just had this
discussion with you and you maintain
that you're correct not only am I
correct
accurately said and that it was a good
idea to make that misrepresentation not
only in front of it wasn't a
misrepresentation it wasn't a
misrepresentation that's his exact words
you say clarified later but even the
clarification does not get to the heart
of what I responded to which is the
negligence that you would hold the
parents to if he wouldn't make a law
saying nine-year-old if you and D Hunty
agree how do you know we agree it sounds
you
do the tell the audience how we agree
you just made the claim that the parents
should be held accountable right sure
dillah Hunty would believe I I can only
how do we know he's not here just based
on past comments oh based on P based
upon what was said at the time I would
suspect can't speak on his behalf but
would suspect that he would make the
claim that yeah parents should be held
accountable if there's some sort of
negligence I can't argue with what you
suspect
unfortunately I could have argued with
his actual position but he left what do
you think his actual position I think
that he would say no that he would not
actually criminalize the parents even
for two consenting 9-year-olds to have
sex that's what I believe he would
say
okay if two 9-year-olds if two
nine-year-olds I think in his worldview
were to do that deed I do not think that
he would hold the parents criminally
responsible for that no I don't think he
would okay
um I cannot possibly fathom why you
would bring it up at all if that was
your contention because that is so far
from a big issue that might have to do
with secular humanism well next time you
can do the debate given that that seems
to have some particulars around whether
or not oh should the parents be held
responsible to what extent were the
parents involved and so forth
because muddy it's not I'm trying to
figure out why exactly it is that you
would bring it up at all except for the
express purpose of misrepresent what did
Christian nationalism have to do with
the debate then I'm sorry what did
the debate then Christian nationalis
yeah he brought up Christian nationalism
and went off about a congressman or I'm
sorry somebody who's going to be the
speaker of the house he went off on that
for like I don't know five minutes yeah
because this is an ethic that's being
brought for for by people who consider
the Christian so if you have some
different ethics from that which I know
that you don't if you have some
different ethics from that system maybe
you can present them to I just did and
explained emphatically that we value
truth and that I don't believe that
under his system they do he he brought
up as an example an institution or the
formings of an institution Christian
nationalism to criticize as an argument
as an example of something he would be
contrary against I brought up similar
examples the other direction I didn't
fle when he criticized Christian
nationalism I didn't run out of the room
when he criticized my worldview I didn't
do any of those things I'm trying to
figure out how your idea of Truth is
different from your opinion backed up by
an all powerful friend who knows
everything and I granted that even if my
opinion was nothing more than me
appealing to Sky Daddy then it's just
subjective relativism and is every bit
as valid as his subjective relativism
your moral system isn't subjective it
isn't objective it is dependent upon
Command right but let us assume for a
second that I grant you that I'm just
living under a delusion and the delusion
is that I believe in a sky fairy and I'm
totally delusional about the entire
thing if that's true even if that's true
then still from a subjective relativist
position it's just as valid as their
position it's just as valid so if it's
just as valid and I just say something
to him like well I don't believe in that
just based on whatever my own
opinion is how's it less valid than
his subjectivity and objectivity are not
operating in the same way as taking
Divine command as the basis of your
inform gred that already and moral
system yeah I granted it I'm not sure
how it is you
can claim that there's some sort of
let's pretend that I made up an entire
ethical system and just said there was a
God I didn't believe in someone did
let's just say that okay let's just say
that that's true it's just as valid as
whatever relativistic this guy
comes up with same just as valid i' like
to see some evidence for you to back up
that your system is just as valid as
somebody who's basing their ethics or
their information objectivity or what
kind of empirical evidence do you think
we could demonstrate like could we maybe
measure have could we maybe measure like
the objective truth of things like would
we start there would we start with what
we think might be true
we could you won't I did I don't think
so I did I granted his worldview and
acted as though I was a sec humanist who
just decided that I believed in these
views because I thought they made more
sense ver
beneficial beneficial versus valid
you're saying your view is valid but is
it beneficial is it useful does it have
utility yes I think it's maximum utility
to not lie to people I think that that
has the maximum utility I think it has
maximum utility not to hold people
emotionally hostage and tell them
that we will self-terminate if you don't
validate an identity you know is a lie
that is the worst thing you can do right
yeah do you have positive relationships
with your family
members like I'm just asking like do you
have people that love you in your life I
don't it's a sad tale okay well then I
can understand your worldview better
it's a sad it's a sad tale
well we got another I just will note
that when we took the second
vote at least one person that voted
for the Christianity worldview mhm did
not vote the second time oh well then I
guess in the opinion of the biased
people in the room then that means I
lose
then oh yeah I think so because I I
stormed out I got up and ran out I fled
the debate I was unwilling to engage it
was all me it's all my fault
you lost without even having to right
what a bunch of cope a bunch of cope
hang out
no I think we're done with this guy
heyone all right we're gonna wrap it up
there um James did you want to make any
other announcements anything you want to
say before we close off for the night of
course I think you guys know that it is
daylight savings tonight so if you are
coming back tomorrow do be sure to set
your clocks or just have an idea of what
time it is that way you show up on time
if you are coming back at tomorrow our
first debate which will be at 10:30 in
the morning Destiny and Leo Leo right
here thanks Leo and want to say thanks
for coming out tonight I wish it would
have gone differently but like I said I
can't force somebody to do something so
thank you guys for your support thanks
for being here hope to see you tomorrow
thanks